.TH DBX-SMITH-DASH 1 "May 2026" "DbxSmith" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
dbx-smith-dash \- Interactive TUI dashboard for DbxSmith
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbx-smith-dash
[options]
.br

.B --print-selected:
output the name of the selected box and exit on Enter. This is used by the shell function wrapper.
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dbx-smith-dash
is a pure Bash Terminal GUI (TUI) dashboard for managing Distrobox containers. It provides a non-flickering, color-coded interface for navigating, connecting, and performing maintenance on containers.

The dashboard features an asynchronous task system that handles long-running operations (like provisioning or removal) in the background without locking the UI, providing real-time progress bars and log streaming.

.SH CONTROLS
.B Up/Down Arrows
Navigate through the container list.
.br
.B Enter
Connect to the selected container.
.br
.B + / =
Open the Creation Wizard. Use [Esc] to go back between steps and [Cancel] to abort.
.br
.B s
Stop the selected container safely.
.br
.B r
Remove the selected container with an asynchronous task overlay.
.br
.B l
Toggle the detailed log view during an active task (provisioning/removal).
.br
.B q / Esc
Quit the dashboard or interrupt an active task.

.SH TASK OVERLAY
When a task is active, an overlay appears at the bottom with:
.IP \(bu 3
A progress bar (0-100%).
.IP \(bu 3
Status messages (e.g., "Provisioning 'fedora'").
.IP \(bu 3
Real-time log streaming from the background process.
.PP
On success, tasks auto-dismiss after 1 second. On failure, tasks persist to allow for log inspection and can be dismissed with any key.

.SH EXAMPLES
Launch the dashboard via the shell wrapper:
.br
	dbx-smith dash
.br

Launch the script directly:
.br
	dbx-smith-dash
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
dbx-smith(1), dbx-smith-list(1), dbx-smith-spin(1), dbx-smith-rm(1)
